README.md, before:

# unet-pp
A simple UNet++ implementation for educational purposes

## Preparation data

The process_data function is designed to process a "cityscapes" dataset. Here's a step-by-step description of what this function does:

The function accepts five parameters:

dataset: The name of the dataset to process.
input_zip_path: The path to the zip file containing the input data.
mask_zip_path: The path to the zip file containing the mask data.
output_path: The path where the processed data should be saved.
class_to_keep: An optional list of classes to keep. If specified, masks will be created only for these classes.
The function first checks if the provided dataset is "cityscapes". If it's not, it prints "Dataset not supported" and exits.

Run the file
python preprocessing_data.py --dataset "cityscapes" --input_zip_path "/path/to/input.zip" --mask_zip_path "/path/to/mask.zip" --output_path "/path/to/output" --class_to_keep "class1 class2 class3"

Please replace /path/to/your/script, /path/to/input.zip, /path/to/mask.zip, and /path/to/output with the actual paths on your system. Replace "class1 class2 class3" with the actual classes you want to keep.

Commit message:

Update app typer, remove empty folder, update readme

README.md, after:

# unet-pp
A simple UNet++ implementation for educational purposes

## Dataset Preparation

To facilitate testing our U-Net++ implementation, specific dataset requirements and tools have been established. Below are the guidelines and steps to prepare your dataset, focusing on using the Cityscapes dataset.

#### Dataset Requirements
- **Cityscapes Dataset:** We decided to use the [Cityscapes dataset](https://www.cityscapes-dataset.com/) for our implementation testing.
- **General Dataset Use:** You may use any dataset of your choice, provided it includes a single folder containing both:
  - Input images in RGB format.
  - Image masks in grayscale.

#### Cityscapes Dataset Preparation
For convenience, we added a CLI tool designed for preparing the Cityscapes dataset to meet the specified criteria.

- **Required Downloads:**
  - Download `leftImg8bit_trainvaltest.zip` and `gtFine_trainval.zip` from the Cityscapes dataset.
- **Using the CLI Tool:**
  - Execute the following command to process the Cityscapes dataset:
```shell
python preprocessing_data.py --dataset "cityscapes" --input_zip_path "./path/to/leftImg8bit_trainvaltest.zip" --mask_zip_path "./path/to/gtFine_trainval.zip" --output_path "/path/to/output"
```


#### CLI Tool Parameters
- `--dataset`: Specifies the dataset to process (currently supports "cityscapes" only).
- `--input_zip_path`: The path to the ZIP file containing the input data.
- `--mask_zip_path`: The path to the ZIP file containing the mask data.
- `--output_path`: The path where the processed/prepared dataset will be saved.
- `--class_to_keep`: (Optional) A list of classes to retain. If specified, the tool will exclude any inputs/masks where none of the specified classes are present, and it will create grayscale masks exclusively for the specified classes (setting all other classes to 0 or black).

#### Additional Notes
- The `class_to_keep` parameter allows for selective data processing, which can be particularly useful for focused model training or testing.
* Skip the `test`  folder from dataset. Test folder: used for testing on evaluation server. The annotations are not public, but we include annotations of ego-vehicle and rectification border for convenience.

Please ensure to follow these guidelines closely to prepare your dataset correctly for optimal testing and evaluation of our U-Net++ implementation.
